+++
title = 'JSTOR AI'
date = 2025-01-30T12:59:33-05:00
Tags = ["JSTOR", "AI", "marriage", "research"]
Categories = ["digital history", "digital tools", "french history"]
draft = false
+++

As AI has become more increasingly prevalent in recent years, we have begun to see its tools being incorporated into the humanities. JSTOR, an online database of academic journals, books, and more has recently integrated an AI tool. At its most basic level, this tool aims to offer a detailed summary of the text you're looking at. The tool also can perform more complex tasks, such as recommending topics, showing related content, and having the ability to answer questions you have about the text. Today, I'll be discussing my experience using the JSTOR AI model to determine its accuracy and general helpfulness in discussing an article in French Historical Studies, titled "Seeking Separations: Gender, Marriages, and Household Economies in Early Modern France" by Julie Hardwick.

After reading this article in full, I examined JSTOR AI's provided summary of the article to determine its accuracy and detail. The tool did, in my opinion, a decent job giving a general overview of the article. It hit on important points made in the text, including the difficulty to obtain any sort of legal separation in early modern France, the grounds which were commonly provided as being sufficient for such separation, and that the process of seeking them revealed the political economy of urban households, the evolving gendered expectations within a marriage, and the priorities of the family.

While this summary, as stated before, hits on many key arguments made in the article, it leaves out one that I viewed as integral to the text—the importance of the wife using neighbors and the community to obtain legal separation. This is a feature of the legal customs relating to petitions for separations that Hardwick highlights throughout the article, as it demonstrates the importance of eye-witness accounts and community opinion in order to form proper legal grounds.

Next, I wanted to test how JSTOR's AI tool answered questions. Going off of some of the important points raised in the text, I asked "What does this text say about the domestic duties of the husband and wife?" in order to see how much detail would be provided. I was surprised with how much information was offered, and how thorough it was. The tool hit upon the domestic duties of the husband centering upon the management of the household property and finances, and that the husband was expected to treat the wife humanely and not punish her without cause. 

When it came to the duties of the wife, it highlighted the importance of her obedience to the husband and that they must demonstrate their fulfillment of their "wifely duties" and her lack of provocation for any mistreatment. While I felt that the summary of the husband's duty was adequate, I thought that of the wife's was lacking in detail, especially since the article mentions that her responsibility to care for her children and keep them safe was an important domestic duty emerging at the time. While I understand that there is only so much detail the tool can provide due to copyright reasons, I would have liked to see it mention the importance of child-rearing since it is thoroughly discussed by Hardwick.

Overall, I think that JSTOR's AI tool is valuable as a time-saver above all else. I think it's good for getting a general idea of the topics covered in the article and the arguments made by the author. I can see this as being especially useful for articles that don't contain an abstract, such as the one discussed in this post. This can help you determine whether or not an article is useful for your research without having to do the work of skimming it. On the topic of skimming, however, I would say that this tool cannot (at least yet) be a complete substitute for skimming. If I were to go simply off of the summary provided, it would leave me without knowing about some of the integral points made in the article which could be found via skimming. Therefore, I think that this tool is a helpful resource to add to the historical research process and can save time, but it should not be seen as a completely thorough provider of all the key arguments and topics discussed in the article.